### Introduction
#### Company
  In 2016, Cyclistic launched a successful bike-share offering. Since then, the program has grown to a fleet of 5,824 bicycles that
are geotracked and locked into a network of 692 stations across Chicago. The bikes can be unlocked from one station and
returned to any other station in the system anytime.

  Until now, Cyclistic’s marketing strategy relied on building general awareness and appealing to broad consumer segments.
One approach that helped make these things possible was the flexibility of its pricing plans: single-ride passes, full-day passes,
and annual memberships. Customers who purchase single-ride or full-day passes are referred to as casual riders. Customers
who purchase annual memberships are Cyclistic members.

Cyclistic’s finance analysts have concluded that annual members are much more profitable than casual riders. Although the
pricing flexibility helps Cyclistic attract more customers, the Director of Marketing, Lily Moreno, believes that maximizing the number of annual members will
be key to future growth. Rather than creating a marketing campaign that targets all-new customers, Moreno believes there is a
very good chance to convert casual riders into members. She notes that casual riders are already aware of the Cyclistic
program and have chosen Cyclistic for their mobility needs.

**Moreno has set a clear goal:** Design marketing strategies aimed at converting casual riders into annual members. In order to
do that, however, the marketing analyst team needs to better understand how annual members and casual riders differ, why
casual riders would buy a membership, and how digital media could affect their marketing tactics. Moreno and her team are
interested in analyzing the Cyclistic historical bike trip data to identify trends.

#### Stakeholders:
- Lily Moreno - Director of Marketing
- Cyclistic Marketing Analytics Team
- Cyclistic Excecutives

#### Report Prompt: *How do annual members and casual riders use Cyclistic bikes differently?*

#### Report Deliverables:
1. A clear statement of the business task
2. A description of all data sources used
3. Documentation of any cleaning or manipulation of data
4. A summary of your analysis
5. Supporting visualizations and key findings
6. Your top three recommendations based on your analysis

**Problem:** A large percentage of Cyclistic users are casual riders.  The executive team wants to convert casual riders into members.

**Goal:** Identify how casaul riders and members use Cyclistic products.  How customers use Cyclstic products includes date/time of use, duration, product type, and location.

**Questions to Answer:** 
- *When* do they use the product? 
- *How long* do they use the product? 
- *Which product* do they use? 
- *Where* do they use the product?

#### Busisness Task:
Identify trends of how casual riders and Cyclistic members used bikes over the previous year and present a visualization of the comparison clearly for stakeholders.

<br>

The steps taken to prepare the data for analysis can be found here: [Preparation](<2.%20Preparation.md>).
